# 2023

## 23.10

### Änderung der Konfigurationsdatei des Plugins goobi_plugin_workflow_fileupload_processcreation

The naming scheme has changed with the update. In the config file `plugin_intranda_workflow_fileUploadProcessCreation.xml`, the / at the beginning and end of the `<namingSchema>` tag must be removed.

Before:

```xml
 <namingSchema>/.*(BA_\\d+[_-](\\d+)).*\\.jpg/</namingSchema>
```
After:

```xml
<namingSchema>.*(BA_\\d+[_-](\\d+)).*\\.jpg</namingSchema>
```

### activemq should not be externally accessible
If `grep -e '0.0.0.0' -e ':::61613' -e '0.0.0.0:61613' /opt/digiverso/goobi/config/goobi_activemq.xml && netstat -tulpn | grep -e ':::61613' -e '0.0.0.0:61613'` yield no results, no action is required.

In `/opt/digiverso/goobi/config/goobi_activemq.xml`, the following two lines must be set to localhost:

```xml
<transportConnector name="openwire" uri="tcp://localhost:61616?maximumConnections=1000&amp;wireFormat.maxFrameSize=104857600"/>
<transportConnector name="stomp" uri="stomp://localhost:61613?maximumConnections=1000&amp;wireFormat.maxFrameSize=104857600"/>
```

In some use cases, it may be desirable to have an open activemq.

### Renaming of the plugin Barcode Scanner

The Goobi workflow plugin: Barcode Scanner has been renamed to fit our naming scheme. Instead of `plugin_intranda_step-barcode_scanner.jar`, the file is now called `plugin_intranda_step_barcode_scanner.jar`.

## 23.05

### New Config File goobi_mail.xml

With the new version, mail sending is configured in a central place. For this purpose, `goobi_mail.xml` must be stored as a new configuration file and the configuration for sending mails must be transferred to the config. The following plugins send mails: `goobi-plugin-step-sendMail` and `goobi-plugin-step-leiden-file-delivery`.

```bash
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intranda/goobi-workflow/master/install/config/goobi_mail.xml -O /opt/digiverso/goobi/config/goobi_mail.xml
```

## 23.04

### Image comments are saved as a process property

Image comments were previously stored in the `images/` folder as a `comments_*.json` file. Instead, they are now stored as an `image comments *` process property. They have to be migrated, if they should still be accessible. This can be ignored if the display of image comments has not been explicitly set to `true`:

```bash
grep ShowImageComments /opt/digiverso/goobi/config/goobi_config.properties
```

## 23.03

### Changing parameters in goobi_config.properties

Change of parameters in goobi_config.properties Due to the update, the parameters dailyDelayJob, dailyVocabJob and dailyHistoryAnalyser have changed. These were previously specified by seconds past midnight and have now been replaced by a cron syntax. This looks as follows, for example:

```bash
dailyDelayJob=0 0 0 * * ? 
dailyVocabJob= 
dailyHistoryAnalyser=0 0 0 * * ?
```

An empty entry stands for not activated, which was -1 before. If the following command does not output anything, nothing has to be done:

```bash
grep -E "dailyDelayJob|dailyVocabJob|dailyHistoryAnalyser" /opt/digiverso/goobi/config/goobi_config.properties
```

## 23.02

### Config file change for the plugin goobi_plugin_administration_data_poller

An update of the plug-in has added a new configuration option for activating and deactivating individual jobs. This option must be added during an update. To do this, `enabled="false"` or `enabled="true"` must be added to each \<rule> tag in the config file `plugin_intranda_administration_data_poller.xml`.

In addition, there is now the option to filter metadata with a white or black list. This was previously only possible via `<skipField>`. Existing configs must be transferred to the new lists. To do this, the `<skipField>` must be converted to `<field>` and the `<fieldList mode="blacklist"> </fieldList>` tag must also be supplemented with the `<field>` tags.

The following can be used to easily rename the `<skipField>` tags:

```bash
sed -i 's/skipField/field/g' /opt/digiverso/goobi/config/plugin_intranda_administration_data_poller.xml
```

## 23.01

### Config file change for the plugin intranda_step_pdf-extraction

Typically, one would like to extract the CropBox area of a PDF page. Since without further configuration the MediaBox is used, one should set the option `<generatorParameter>-cropbox</generatorParameter>` in the `images` block. For example like this:

```bash
xmlstarlet ed --inplace -s '//config/images[not(generatorParameter)]' -t elem -n generatorParameter -v '-cropbox' /opt/digiverso/goobi/config/plugin_intranda_step_pdf-extraction.xml
```