# ‘metadata’ sub-directory

The `metadata` sub-directory is the central directory for storing metadata and digital content generated by Goobi. For each Goobi process, it contains a directory with the name of the process ID. Directories for individual Goobi processes are structured as follows:

```bash
1234/
1234/meta.xml
1234/images/
1234/ocr/
1234/import/
1234/validation/
1234/taskmanager/
```

Depending on the configuration, the central metadata file meta.xml may be accompanied by other back-up files, e.g. `meta.xml.1`, `meta.xml.2`, `meta.xml.3`

Within the workflow, the `images` directory is accessible for a limited period to various users. Its structure is shown below:

```bash
1234/images/abc_media/
1234/images/abc_jpg/
1234/images/abc_source/
1234/images/master_abc_media/
```

When you are working with digital content, the most important directory is the one ending in `_media`. The directory beginning with `master_` is normally used to store all master images in unmanipulated status. The other directories are intended to be freely accessible within the workflow and can be added to whenever necessary. Both the directory ending in source and the directory ending in `_media` are copied when exporting to the presentation system (e.g. intranda viewer).

The images directory may be accompanied by an `ocr` directory. This contains all the OCR results that are generated within the workflow and added to the process. There is a separate directory for each format of the OCR results.

```bash
1234/ocr/abc_alto/
1234/ocr/abc_doc/
1234/ocr/abc_pdf/
1234/ocr/abc_wc/
1234/ocr/abc_xml/
```

Smaller versions of the images in `images` can be saved in the `thumbs` folder, which Goobi uses to display the images in low resolution. This considerably increases the speed of image display for larger images. For each subfolder of `images`, one or more subfolders can be created in `thumbs` with the same name as the `images` subfolder, extended by an additional underscore \_ and a size specification in pixels. This size specification must correspond to the maximum height and width of the images in the respective subfolder. The file names of the images in the `thumbs` subfolder must correspond to those of the images in the corresponding `images` subfolder, but with the file extension `.jpg`.


```bash
1234/thumbs/abc_media_800/
1234/thumbs/abc_media_3000/
1234/thumbs/master_abc_media_800/
1234/thumbs/master_abc_media_3000/
```

If there are matching images in `thumbs` for an image file in `images`, these are automatically used in Goobi to display thumbnails and zoomable images when zoomed out.

The `validation` directory is used in cases where automatic validation (e.g. of the images) is performed on the Goobi server and in the workflows.

A sub-folder is created within this directory each time validation is performed. This makes it possible to retain older validation results. As illustrated below, the name generated for each sub-folder contains the date, time and type of validation.

```bash
1234/validation/2012-11-20_11-20-01_jpylyzer/
1234/validation/2012-11-20_12-02-13_jhove/
1234/validation/2012-11-23_08-12-56_jpylyzer/
```

If Goobi is being used with the intranda TaskManager, a `taskmanager` directory will also be found within the folder. This is where TaskManager stores temporary data to perform tasks that require lengthy processing. Depending on the configuration, it is also used to permanently store and maintain all the ticket and template files created each time the TaskManager is called. The directory is made up as follows:

```bash
1234/taskmanager/2012-11-23_08-12-56_jp2validate/
1234/taskmanager/2012-11-25_14-38-15_iii-create_jpeg/
```

Again depending on the installation, for each Goobi process there is an `import` directory, which is used by import plug-ins to store original source files for the process in question. Catalogue dataset files and other source files that have been manually read in and imported can be stored here and used in scripts as part of workflow processing. The folder structure could be as follows:\


```bash
1234/import/abc.mrc
1234/import/abc.original.pdf
1234/import/eod/
```